# Sales-Analysis
## Summary
A US national retail store is collecting hundreds of data from all sales intractions around the country everyday. Extracting valuable insights from this huge data has the potential to help the sales managers in their decision making process and finding the areas where they can work on improving sale and maximizing profit. The objective of this project is to demonstrate the power of data visulization and data analysis to extract such valuable insights.

## Visulization
The overall sales is depicted as a [pie chart](https://github.com/Ladan-n/Sales-Analysis/blob/main/Overall_Sales_Summary.png). It shows that 80.7% of the sales is profitable, 18.6% is loss-making, and 0.7% is no-profit, respectively.

A dashboard created for the data using [Tableau](https://public.tableau.com/app/profile/ladan.naimi/viz/Salesvis_16382520368160/Dashboard1#3). The country is devided to four regions of West, East, Central, and South. The pie chart depicted in the Tableau dashboard shows that the West region has the maximum sales of 473,000 whereas the South region has the minimum sales of 243,000. There are four shiping mode classes of First Class, Same Day, Second Class, and Standard. A bar chart is created in the dash board that shows the profit for each shipping mode classes. Each class is also devided to the four regions showing the profit of each region. The bar chart shows that Standard Class shipping has the maximum profit compared to Same Day Class shipping which has the minimum profit. Profit for each state is shown on the US map. A barchart showing the profit for each state is shown [here](https://github.com/Ladan-n/Sales-Analysis/blob/main/Bargraph_of_Profit_for_States.png) which sorts the states based on profit. This graph helps to see the position of profit for each state compared to other states.
